Hello.
And let's talk about testing testing you see is an important concept in programming not just Python
although we start off writing simple script files with few lines of code when we start getting into
the real world.
You start getting thousands and millions of lines of code hundreds of Python files worked on by many
people from different divisions in a company and most likely all of them starting a different time.
The company all the code changes happening over time at different times as people work on the project
as the complexity of the code and the size of the code increases it becomes harder and harder for someone
to fix a bug that may arise.
Let's say you come into a project that has been around for years you may modify something that may modify
a another part of the app that you deem and think of and you start creating all these bugs with new
features that you introduce into the app.
The longer that the code stays in a project the more likely it is to be touched by different developers.
So you see the problem here right.
For companies this is a huge problem because you're most likely always growing your product and adding
more and more lines of code.
That means that there's just going to keep making this giant monster that becomes harder and harder
to tame and debug and it costs companies a lot of money luckily for us we have something called testing
and testing can help us solve this problem as the name suggests.
Testing is a method in software development where individual units of source code such as functions
are tested to see whether they work properly.
Although it may not be a big part of a coding interview a lot of companies usually don't think about
testing when interviewing people.
It becomes more and more important as you go through your career.
For example in my case when I first started out as a programmer I didn't know that much about testing
before I got hired.
But the importance of testing grew more and more as I progressed in my career.
And it's one of those things that has made me a better developer so if you want to become a senior programmer
and if you want to have a long lasting career you really need to master the skill because remember every
serious company is going to have tests and they'll want you to write tests for your code.
So let's explore this idea of testing a little bit more.
You see a test is simply a nother python file now.
In my case over here I have a main dot pi and a test dot pi file on my desktop right here usually you
have a test file like this accompanying one of your files.
So for example if you had a hundred files of Python or modules then each of those modules will have
its own test file that you can run tests with.
Now this file that we're going to be writing never actually runs in production.
It's a file that we run to make sure that before we release this main dot pi file to production that
everything is working properly.
So this is only for development.
We would never actually well the customers will never see this file now before we actually start writing
some tests.
I do want to remind you that we did learn a few ways to debug our code right.
We learned about things like piloting that we installed in our visual studio code to link to our code
and check the syntax and small errors as we type our code.
We also saw how the online repo that we used use another thing called Pi flex which is just another
lender and then we also saw that pie chart.
Our IDC also had built in lending.
We also learned that we have something called Auto pep 8 or PEP 8 which is the standard style guide
for python and this allows us to make sure that our code meets a style that the Python community has
agreed on.
These are the simple tools that allow our code to be checked for simple styling issues or simple mistakes
such as not declaring a variable but these only get you so far and testing is a higher level up a way
to after you do lending after you do something like pep 8.
After you've met all those requirements and your file runs.
Testing is a way to actually check even more of your code.
So how do we write these tests that I keep talking about and not coding.
Well let's find out.
Luckily for us there is a built in module from the standard library that we can use.
And it's called unit test so in the next video we're gonna start writing some tests writing some sample
code and show you exactly how they benefit us as programmers.
I'll see in the next one by.